                            NETWORKING
- A computer network is a group of computer devices connected to share resources
        Components
    - A computer - An electronic device connected to the network to share resources.
    - A Network Interface Cable - Connects a computer to a network cable
    - Ethernet cable - Connects a computer to a network via the NIC.
    - Switch - Connects multiple computers to a network
    - Router - Connects switches together.

        The OSI(Open System Interconnection) model
    - Defines a standard way in which computers can be connected to share resources.
    - It consists of 7 layers
    1. Application layer(Layer 7)
    2. Presentation
    3. Session
    4. Transport
    5. Network - Data is known as packets and is associated with an IP address.
    6. Data Link - Data is known as a frame, and it is associated with a MAC address
    7. Physical

  NOTE: Both MAC and IP addresses are used to identify computers in a network.
        The MAC address is issued by the vendor during the manufacture of a machine
        while the IP address is provided by the internet service provider.

  Networking Components
  1. Client - A computer device or program that sends requests to a server for resources.
  2. Server -  A computer that receives requests and sends responses to a client.
  3. Hub - Connects multiple computers together in a network. It doesn't send the data to a specific
            address, all computers receive the data thought the intended recipient is the only one
            that listens to the data.
  4. Switch - Connects multiple computers in a network and sends data to the intended computer using
              the mac address indicated.
       NOTE: The switch and the hub are both layer 2 devices
  5. Router - Connects multiple switches/ hubs together. It filters data and sends it to its
            intended destination. It operates both in layer 2 and 3. Can read data as a frame or a packet.

            Network Types
       1. Local Area Network
         - Connects devices on a small geographical area
       2. Wide Area Network
         - Connects devices on a large geographical area.
         - Uses fibre optics technologies and satellites to transmit data.
         NOTE: The internet is an example.

            Network Topologies
       - This refers to a pattern that shows how nodes are connected to each other
       - The pattern can be
                1. Physical topology - defines how devices are wired together.
                2. Logical topology -  refers to how data moves through the network.
       - These topologies include
                1. Bus - All devices are connected together in a straight line. Usually slow since
                    a request has to go through another device before it reaches its end point.
                2. Mesh - A complex structure where devices are interconnected together. It maybe partial
                        or full. Partial, one device is connected to at least two devices while in a full mesh
                        all devices are interconnected together.
                3. Hybrid - A combination of two or more topologies, e.g the star-bus topology
                4. Star - Devices are connected to one central switch.